README.md, before:

# Perfect Project Starter for Python (Django)

## Adopt this for your project

Replace all instances of the following the project:
* `longprojectname` with `<longer-project-name>` (could collide with other projects)
* `shortprojectname` with `<name>`
* `pythoncodefolder` with the relative path to where your python code is/will be (relative to the project root)
    * Put your python code in this folder
    * You must have at least an empty `requirements.txt` file
        * NOTE: If you don't have any files in this folder docker will mess up the permissions on this folder for some reason -.-)

Simplify/Update the following as required for your project (Currently set up for django project with a postgresql DB)
* `docker/docker-compose.*.yml` files
* `start.sh` currently produces different django start commands based on environment variables
* `.vscode/tasks.shared.json`
* `.vscode/launch.shared.json`
* `.editorconfig`
* `start.sh`

If you need to interactively initialize your code in the container with it's exact environment...
* Do steps #01 and #02 of [setup-and-run](#setup-and-run)
* Run `. setup-dev.sh` (it will give an error that requirements.txt doesn't exist)
* Run `cd docker && docker compose run python /bin/bash` and then do your thing.
    * **django**
        ```bash
        python -m pip install Django==4.1.7
        mkdir settings
        django-admin startproject settings .
        python -m pip freeze requirements.txt
        # Add an app
        mkdir apps
        mkdir apps/myapp
        python manage.py startapp myapp ./apps/myapp
        # Add "psycopg2==2.9.5" to generated requirements.txt (for postgresql)
        ```

* Run `. setup-dev.sh` again, should be no errors

Run `. start.sh` to run the code

Update the README Title, and (probably) nuke this "Adopt this for your project" section.

## Setup and run

### #01 - Dependencies

Install Docker (and docker compose)
* (dev) [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)
    * (windows) should use WSL2 engine
* (prod)

### #02 - IDE setup

**VsCode with Dev Containers (v1.74.3) (Recommended)**

This option will automaitcally include all development dependencies, extension recomendations, debug and run configs

> Install the [Dev Containers Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers)(v0.266.1)
> * It should ask if you want to "Reopen in Container", say yes. (Otherwise, click on the bottom left corner (green square), `Reopen in Container (Dev Container)`)

**VsCode local & Other IDEs**

With this option you are in charge of installing and configuring all dependancies/extensions correctly

> Install Python 3.11
>
> Install extensions:
> * EditorConfig (recommended) [[vscode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=EditorConfig.EditorConfig)]
> * Docker (optional) [[vscode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-docker)]
> * VsCode only
>   * WorkSpace Config Plus (recommended) [[vscode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=swellaby.workspace-config-plus)]

### #03 - Setup and Run Project

Run initial setup script (safe to rerun)
* (dev) `. setup-dev.sh`
* (prod) `. setup-prod.sh`

Fill out the following files as appropriate
* `/docker/docker-compose.override.yml`
* (dev) (vscode only) `.devcontainer/user-installs.sh`
    * Note: You should refresh the dev container **now** and any time you update `.devcontainer/user-installs.sh`
        * `ctrl + shift + P` > `Dev Containers: Rebuild Container` for a completely fresh re-application
        * Or re-run the file directly for a quick and dirty update `bash .devcontainer/user-installs.sh`
* (dev) (vscode only) `.vscode/settings.local.json`

Run `. start.sh`
* (dev) Set environment variables as desired (for `start.sh`):
    * START_SH_DEBUG=true if you want to debug
    * START_SH_DEBUG_WAIT=true if want the program to wait until a debugger is attached

### #04 - Additional Notes

To get into a running container (eg. the python container)
```bash
docker compose exec -it python /bin/bash
```
If `requirements.txt` changes you should rebuild the image
```bash
docker compose build python
```

Commit message:

docker network - need to create a network outside the compose file so that devcontainer can talk to the other containers for debugging

README.md, after:

# Perfect Project Starter for Python (Django)

## Adopt this for your project

Replace all instances of the following the project:
* `longprojectname` with `<longer-project-name>` (could collide with other projects)
* `shortprojectname` with `<name>`
* `pythoncodefolder` with the relative path to where your python code is/will be (relative to the project root)
    * Put your python code in this folder
    * You must have at least an empty `requirements.txt` file
        * NOTE: If you don't have any files in this folder docker will mess up the permissions on this folder for some reason -.-)

Simplify/Update the following as required for your project (Currently set up for django project with a postgresql DB)
* `docker/docker-compose.*.yml` files
* `start.sh` currently produces different django start commands based on environment variables
* `.vscode/tasks.shared.json`
* `.vscode/launch.shared.json`
* `.editorconfig`
* `start.sh`

If you need to interactively initialize your code in the container with it's exact environment...
* Do steps #01 and #02 of [setup-and-run](#setup-and-run)
* Run `. setup-dev.sh` (it will give an error that requirements.txt doesn't exist)
* Run `cd docker && docker compose run python /bin/bash` and then do your thing.
    * **django**
        ```bash
        python -m pip install Django==4.1.7
        mkdir settings
        django-admin startproject settings .
        python -m pip freeze requirements.txt
        # Add an app
        mkdir apps
        mkdir apps/myapp
        python manage.py startapp myapp ./apps/myapp
        # Add "psycopg2==2.9.5" to generated requirements.txt (for postgresql)
        ```

* Run `. setup-dev.sh` again, should be no errors

Run `. start.sh` to run the code

Update the README Title, and (probably) nuke this "Adopt this for your project" section.

## Setup and run

### #01 - Dependencies

Install Docker (and docker compose)
* (dev) [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)
    * (windows) should use WSL2 engine
* (prod)

### #02 - IDE setup

**VsCode with Dev Containers (v1.74.3) (Recommended)**

This option will automaitcally include all development dependencies, extension recomendations, debug and run configs

> Install the [Dev Containers Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers)(v0.266.1)
> * It should ask if you want to "Reopen in Container", say yes. (Otherwise, click on the bottom left corner (green square), `Reopen in Container (Dev Container)`)

**VsCode local & Other IDEs**

With this option you are in charge of installing and configuring all dependancies/extensions correctly

> Install Python 3.11
>
> Install extensions:
> * EditorConfig (recommended) [[vscode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=EditorConfig.EditorConfig)]
> * Docker (optional) [[vscode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-docker)]
> * VsCode only
>   * WorkSpace Config Plus (recommended) [[vscode](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=swellaby.workspace-config-plus)]
>
> VsCode only:
> * Create `.vscode/launch.local.json` from a copy of `.vscode/launch.shared.json`, delete all keys except `"host"` and change the value to `"localhost"`

### #03 - Setup and Run Project

Run initial setup script (safe to rerun)
* (dev) `. setup-dev.sh`
* (prod) `. setup-prod.sh`

Fill out the following files as appropriate
* `/docker/docker-compose.override.yml`
* (dev) (vscode only) `.devcontainer/user-installs.sh`
    * Note: You should refresh the dev container **now** and any time you update `.devcontainer/user-installs.sh`
        * `ctrl + shift + P` > `Dev Containers: Rebuild Container` for a completely fresh re-application
        * Or re-run the file directly for a quick and dirty update `bash .devcontainer/user-installs.sh`
* (dev) (vscode only) `.vscode/settings.local.json`

Run `. start.sh`
* (dev) Set environment variables as desired (for `start.sh`):
    * START_SH_DEBUG=true if you want to debug
    * START_SH_DEBUG_WAIT=true if want the program to wait until a debugger is attached

### #04 - Additional Notes

To get into a running container (eg. the python container)
```bash
docker compose exec -it python /bin/bash
```
If `requirements.txt` changes you should rebuild the image
```bash
docker compose build python
```
